---
date: '2006-04-10'
title: 'A/V sync problems: VLC better than Mencoder'
category: English
tags: Linux, mencoder, Video, VLC
---

Today I tried to transcode a bunch of videos using my favorite script. I need
to do this because the videos produced with my cheap camera use Mjpeg as video
codec and raw-data as audio codec. This result of incredible large files. To
share my videos with friends, I transcode them to mpeg4/mp3 files. This is all
the dirty work my script is supposed to handle.

Unfortunately I didn't use it since I upgraded Mandriva from 2005 to the 2006
release. As you can guess, it wasn't working: mencoder gave me the following
`Audio LAVC, couldn't find encoder for codec mp3` error message. First, I
though it was because of a bad version of ffmpeg. Looking at the source RPM
from PLF repository gave me the proof that my version was compiled with the
right options.

To bypass this problems, I used the `-mp3lame` as output audio codec. This
introduced horrible A/V sync. :( For 3 hours, I tried to play with mencoder
options without success. I was completetly desesperated... until I tried VLC.
In less than 10 minutes I was able to get the expected result: perfect A/V sync
movie file!

Thanks to the [VLC wiki](https://wiki.videolan.org/), I also discovered the
h264 video codec, which is a good codec for low bitrates. Even if it produce
bigger files compared to my older method (the latter can be found in [the first
version of the
script](https://github.com/kdeldycke/scripts/blob/master/avi2mp4.py)), the
quality is very awesome and video artefacts (ringings and blockings) are so
reduced that it's now very hard to distinguish. So I decided to use h264 in the
[new version of my
script](https://github.com/kdeldycke/scripts/blob/master/avi2mp4.py).

There is still an inconvenient of using VLC instead of mencoder: VLC is
transcoded at real time! I tried the "hurry-up" parameters without effects.
This is sad but acceptable, since my goal is to archive my tiny videos.

To summarize, here is the command line I use to do transcoding via VLC:

```shell-session
$ vlc --sout-all "input_video.avi" :sout='#transcode{vcodec=h264, acodec=mp3, ab=32,channels=1, audio-sync}:std{access=file, mux=mp4, url="output_video.mp4"}' vlc:quit -I dummy
```

This command is far from perfect and I plan to dig into VLC help to tune h264
codec.
